README.md, before:

# LMSpace

LMSpace is a CLI tool for managing workspace agents across different backends. It currently supports VS Code workspace agents with plans to add support for OpenAI Agents, Azure AI Agents, GitHub Copilot CLI and Codex CLI.

## Features

### VS Code Workspace Agents

Manage isolated VS Code workspaces for parallel agent development sessions:

- **Provision subagents**: Create a pool of isolated workspace directories
- **Chat with agents**: Automatically claim a workspace and start a VS Code chat session
- **Lock management**: Prevent conflicts when running multiple agents in parallel

The project uses `uv` for dependency and environment management.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.12+
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) installed locally (`pip install uv`)
- VS Code installed for workspace agent functionality

## Quick Start

### Installation

```powershell
# Install lmspace as a uv-managed tool (recommended for end users)
uv tool install lmspace

# Install via uv pip (useful when managing a virtualenv manually)
uv pip install lmspace

# Or for development
uv pip install -e .[dev]
```

### Using VS Code Workspace Agents

1. **Provision and optionally warm up subagent workspaces**:
   ```powershell
   lmspace code provision --subagents 5 [--warmup]
   ```
   This creates 5 isolated workspace directories in `~/.lmspace/vscode-agents/`. Add `--warmup` to open the newly provisioned workspaces immediately.

2. **Start a chat with an agent**:
   ```powershell
   lmspace code chat <agent_config_path> "Your query here"
   ```
   This claims an unlocked subagent, copies your agent configuration, and opens VS Code.

3. **Example agent configuration** (`my-agent/` directory):
   - `SUBAGENT.md` - Authoritative chat mode definition; runtime launches transpile to `subagent.chatmode.md`
   - `subagent.code-workspace` - VS Code workspace settings

### Command Reference

**Provision subagents**:
```powershell
lmspace code provision --subagents <count> [--refresh] [--template <path>] [--target-root <path>] [--warmup]
```
- `--subagents <count>`: Number of workspaces to create
- `--refresh`: Rebuild unlocked workspaces
- `--template <path>`: Custom template directory
- `--target-root <path>`: Custom destination (default: `~/.lmspace/vscode-agents`)
- `--dry-run`: Preview without making changes
- `--warmup`: Launch VS Code for the provisioned workspaces once provisioning finishes

**Warm up workspaces**:
```powershell
lmspace code warmup [--subagents <count>] [--target-root <path>] [--dry-run]
```
- `--subagents <count>`: Number of workspaces to open (default: 1)
- `--target-root <path>`: Custom subagent root directory
- `--dry-run`: Show which workspaces would be opened

**Start a chat with an agent**:
```powershell
lmspace code chat <agent_config_path> <query> [--attachment <path>] [--dry-run]
```
- `<agent_config_path>`: Path to agent configuration directory
- `<query>`: User query to pass to the agent
- `--attachment <path>`: Additional files to attach (repeatable)
- `--dry-run`: Preview without launching VS Code

## Development

```powershell
# Install deps (from repo root)
uv pip install -e . --extra dev

# Run tests
uv run --extra dev pytest
```

Commit message:

Add async mode support for VS Code agents

README.md, after:

# LMSpace

LMSpace is a CLI tool for managing workspace agents across different backends. It currently supports VS Code workspace agents with plans to add support for OpenAI Agents, Azure AI Agents, GitHub Copilot CLI and Codex CLI.

## Features

### VS Code Workspace Agents

Manage isolated VS Code workspaces for parallel agent development sessions:

- **Provision subagents**: Create a pool of isolated workspace directories
- **Chat with agents**: Automatically claim a workspace and start a VS Code chat session
- **Lock management**: Prevent conflicts when running multiple agents in parallel

The project uses `uv` for dependency and environment management.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.12+
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) installed locally (`pip install uv`)
- VS Code installed for workspace agent functionality

## Quick Start

### Installation

```powershell
# Install lmspace as a uv-managed tool (recommended for end users)
uv tool install lmspace

# Install via uv pip (useful when managing a virtualenv manually)
uv pip install lmspace

# Or for development
uv pip install -e .[dev]
```

### Using VS Code Workspace Agents

1. **Provision and optionally warm up subagent workspaces**:
   ```powershell
   lmspace code provision --subagents 5 [--warmup]
   ```
   This creates 5 isolated workspace directories in `~/.lmspace/vscode-agents/`. Add `--warmup` to open the newly provisioned workspaces immediately.

2. **Start a chat with an agent (async mode - default)**:
   ```powershell
   lmspace code chat <agent_config_path> "Your query here"
   ```
   This claims an unlocked subagent, copies your agent configuration, opens VS Code, and returns immediately.
   The agent writes its response to a file that you can monitor or read later.

3. **Start a chat with an agent (sync mode - wait for response)**:
   ```powershell
   lmspace code chat <agent_config_path> "Your query here" --wait
   ```
   This blocks until the agent completes and prints the response to stdout.

3. **Example agent configuration** (`my-agent/` directory):
   - `SUBAGENT.md` - Authoritative chat mode definition; runtime launches transpile to `subagent.chatmode.md`
   - `subagent.code-workspace` - VS Code workspace settings

### Command Reference

**Provision subagents**:
```powershell
lmspace code provision --subagents <count> [--force] [--template <path>] [--target-root <path>] [--warmup]
```
- `--subagents <count>`: Number of workspaces to create
- `--force`: Overwrite existing unlocked subagent directories (respects `.lock` files)
- `--template <path>`: Custom template directory
- `--target-root <path>`: Custom destination (default: `~/.lmspace/vscode-agents`)
- `--dry-run`: Preview without making changes
- `--warmup`: Launch VS Code for the provisioned workspaces once provisioning finishes

**Warm up workspaces**:
```powershell
lmspace code warmup [--subagents <count>] [--target-root <path>] [--dry-run]
```
- `--subagents <count>`: Number of workspaces to open (default: 1)
- `--target-root <path>`: Custom subagent root directory
- `--dry-run`: Show which workspaces would be opened

**Start a chat with an agent**:
```powershell
lmspace code chat <agent_config_path> <query> [--attachment <path>] [--wait] [--dry-run]
```
- `<agent_config_path>`: Path to agent configuration directory
- `<query>`: User query to pass to the agent
- `--attachment <path>` / `-a`: Additional files to attach (repeatable)
- `--wait` / `-w`: Wait for response and print to stdout (sync mode). Default is async mode.
- `--dry-run`: Preview without launching VS Code

**Note**: By default, chat runs in **async mode** - it returns immediately after launching VS Code, and the agent writes its response to a timestamped file in the subagent's `messages/` directory. Use `--wait` for synchronous operation.

## Development

```powershell
# Install deps (from repo root)
uv pip install -e . --extra dev

# Run tests
uv run --extra dev pytest
```
